do you ever have bad days we all do well
here's something to lift your spirits
and inspire you to keep going
the story of Hugh glass the guy who
survived an encounter with a bear and
crawled 200 miles and he did plenty more
besides throughout his life Hugh glass
took part in daring adventures
it seems that fate was preparing him all
along for the legendary meeting with
that bear as a young man glass worked as
a sailor and was captured by pirates
the Pirates captain suggested glass join
his group and of course he agreed after
two years of pirate adventures glass
escaped by swimming two miles across the
open sea he reached the coast of Texas
without a map or equipment he began to
make his way north then glass became a
prisoner again this time a Native
American tribe caught him but they made
friends with class and taught him
wilderness survival skills probably
without ever imagining that it would
save his life one day
some time after class arrived in st.
Louis Missouri this was the place where
he became a legend
one day in 1822 glass opened the
Missouri Gazette and noticed an
announcement a man called William Henry
Ashley was organizing a research
expedition along the Missouri River and
looking for a team of 100 men the
expedition would last two to three years
and all the participants would be
generously rewarded without hesitation
glass signed all the necessary papers
and in 1823 set out on the most
important adventure of his life for
several months
Ashley's team worked their way up to the
headwaters of the Missouri River Nature
didn't pose much of a risk to the
experienced hunters but the weather
could be a big problem
winters are harsh there and the team was
going to need time to get to the bank of
the yellowstone river to wade out the
cold one day glass was with two hunters
the young Jaime Bridger and an older man
called John Fitzgerald
they left the group to gather berries
and edible plants this was their usual
mission for food which they had done
many times before they split up and
agreed to make a loud noise if something
happened glass had already gathered a
lot of berries when he saw wild
raspberry bushes on the mountainside as
he picked them he made his way down a
Glade not really paying attention to his
surroundings he looked up and at that
moment saw a grizzly bear okay take a
deep breath and freeze it'll just look
me over and then go away it's all right
last thought to himself he began moving
backwards very slowly trying not to
frighten the bear the grizzly stared
with curiosity at the strange creature
on two legs but right at that moment
glass noticed something his heart
stopped two bear cubs were with their
mother's feet this changed everything
that grizzly wasn't going anywhere he
realized the bear would protect her cubs
no matter what it seemed that the bear
noticed glass studying her cubs this
acted as a signal for her that it was
time to protect her children the Beast
snarl and bared her big sharp fangs
before glass could do anything the huge
animal pounced on him
glass shouted which agitated the bear
even more it probably wanted to run away
but it was instinctively defending its
cubs one punch from its huge paw was
enough to cause serious injury to glass
fortunately Bridger and Fitzgerald found
glass and drove the bear off soon the
rest of the team arrived
Ashley built a stretcher and the men
took turns to carry glass over the next
few days he was feverish and shivering
unable to speak and his leg was broken
nobody thought that glass would survive
for long but a few days passed and he
was still clinging to life the group
worried they wouldn't reach Yellowstone
before winter arrived and wanted to
leave glass Ashley decided to abandon
him and paid Bridger and Fitzgerald to
stay with glass
the group left now on their own they set
up a small camp by the river and the two
hunters tended to glass feeding him and
bandaging his wounds but their patience
was running out they were afraid of
being on their own in the wild and
wanted to catch up with the others
Fitzgerald tried to persuade Bridger
that they should leave the poor man why
do we need to stay with him and risk our
lives when he's already done for
Fitzgerald argued Bridger didn't want to
leave glass until one day they saw the
Native Americans afraid Fitzgerald and
Bridger hid in the bushes
the Native Americans saw glass lying on
the grass and concluded he wouldn't
survive they left without touching it
but Fitzgerald and Bridger were now
terrified they took all of glasses
things and left but there was one thing
they couldn't take from him his
incredible desire to live but right then
glass was still unconscious he lay there
on his own for a long time and was only
woken up by the Sun his whole body was
sore he couldn't shout and no one
responded to his groans it took in
several hours to get out of the hall his
companions had placed him in he lost
consciousness again because of the
effort but was later woken by the pain
of his wounds a shadow fell across his
eyes a wolf was studying glass carefully
his self-preservation instinct kicked in
he bunched up and rolled away toward the
river he fell into the icy swirling
water
this brought glass to his senses it was
like he had finally woken up glass
pulled himself out of the river and
washed his wounds with icy water
his body felt numb and the pain subsided
at first he tried chewing on grass to
gain strength but it was disgusting then
over several hours glass made his way to
the nearest wild bush
one of his legs wouldn't work because it
was dislocated and the other one was
broken so glass had to pull himself
along with his hands finally he reached
the bushes and eat all the berries on
the lower branches then he went to the
next one and the one after that he
survived on berries for a few days and
then managed to catch a snake the meat
gave him more strength and he tried to
stand up his leg still didn't work so
glass began to crawl he was driven
forward not only by the strength of his
spirit and the desire to live but also
by the wish to look the people who had
abandoned him in the eyes along the way
glass ate berries plants tree bark tree
roots and sometimes eggs he found in
birds nests he created a small fishing
rod from dirty bandages and a long stick
and managed to catch some fish he
crawled forward ate drank and slept at
night he covered himself with dry
branches and leaves he tried to make a
fire but he didn't have the strength
mile after mile he crawled in the
direction of Fort Kiowa his strength was
returning more and more but his wounds
wouldn't heal he urgently needed help
and luckily enough he found it some
Native Americans found glass they
treated his wounds and helped him to get
back on his feet nothing could stop him
now all he thought was about finding
Fitzgerald and Bridger glass went to
Yellowstone where Henry Ashley's group
was meant to be
but when glass arrived he found no one
he told a story to everyone he met and
soon word about his experience began to
spread across the country for most of
the following year he searched for the
two men who had abandoned him and
finally he found Bridger the young
hunter was very remorseful about what he
had done and glass decided to forgive
him but he wasn't going to forgive
Fitzgerald but then glas learned that
Fitzgerald had joined the army
so the
no way he could see him so glass decided
to wait until Fitzgerald service had
ended when the time came though glass
realized that all his fury and anger
were gone
he took his possessions back from
Fitzgerald and forgave him glass went on
to work as a hunter on the Yellowstone
River he became one of the best hunters
and trappers in the state he went on
many other adventures over the course of
his life until his last one in 1833